# Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming
# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The requirements of this app were to design and build an app that allowed a user to input their weights and goal to a database and display that information in a grid. They should also be able to opt in to a SMS notification feature for reaching their goal.

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
I needed a way for users to create and login to a personal account so I designed a login screen. Then I needed a screen to display their weight measurements so I designed a grid screen to show their entries. I then thought about what would make it easy for a user to use the app so I decided the least amount of screens the better. I implemented most of my functionality from this grid screen by creating a Add, Delete, and Set goal button. I also allowed users to customize each individual entry with another edit button. Next I needed a screen to add the user weights and another screen to allow them to set their goals. I decided to allow the user to opt in to SMS messaging from the goal screen. Finally I realized I would need one last screen to allow the users to edit or delete individual entries so I designed that last. At each step I thought about what would make the app easy for me to use so this helped me a lot in my design process and is why it was successful.

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I broke this project down into small chunks. I first designed the screens that I needed and built them. Next I knew that I would need a database to hold all of the user information so I designed that next and tested my login functionality. I then proceeded to build and test each screen at a time. Breaking the project down like this helped a lot with debugging my code.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
After building each individual part of my code I would test it on the android emulator. Lets take the login button for example. I would create the function for the button and then create the corresponding function to verify the correct user in my database. I would then run the emulator to ensure it worked correctly. If it did then I would think about what if it didn't work correctly and created error messages for it so that the user would know when something went wrong.

# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
My biggest challenge in this project by far was actually implementing the code to display the data to the grid screen. This was my first time working with Android Studio and all the concepts were new to me. I knew I wanted to utilize a RecyclerView to make organizing the user data easy and more user friendly but the actual implementation was a maze to me. Luckily there are many resources on the web and I was able to overcome this challenge.

# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I would say the actual grid screen since it was the most challenging to me but the app on the whole demonstrats a wide range of skills. I had to utilize my database skills to design and create all the tables to hold the relevant user data. I had to utilize front end skills to make my app easy to follow and understand from a users perspective. Then I had to use backend skills to bring it all together by retrieving and adding the data from that database and displaying it to the grid. The SMS messaging feature was a nice extra touch of Android skills.
